#In the following SQL, I'm querying a database with multiple tables in it to quantify statistics about customer and order data.

--How many orders were placed in January?
SELECT COUNT(orderid)
FROM JanSales
WHERE length(orderid) = 6
AND orderid <> 'Order ID';

--How many of those orders were an iPhone?
SELECT COUNT(orderid)
FROM JanSales
WHERE Product='iPhone'
AND length(orderid) = 6
AND orderid <> 'Order ID';

--Select the customer account numbers for all the orders that were placed in February:
SELECT distinct acctnum
FROM customers cust
INNER JOIN FebSales Feb
ON cust.order_id=FEB.orderid
WHERE length(orderid) = 6
AND orderid <> 'Order ID';

--Which product was the cheapest one sold in January and what was the price?
SELECT distinct product, min(price)
FROM JanSales;

--What is the total revenue for each product sold in January?
SELECT ROUND(sum(quantity)*price,2) as revenue
,product
FROM JanSales
GROUP BY product;

--Which products were sold in February at 548 Lincoln St, Seattle, WA 98101, how many of each were sold, and what was the total revenue?
SELECT
sum(Quantity),
product,
sum(quantity)*price as revenue
FROM FebSales
WHERE location = '548 Lincoln St, Seattle, WA 98101'
GROUP BY product;

--How many customers ordered more than 2 products at a time in February, and what was the average amount spent for those customers?
SELECT
count(distinct cust.acctnum) AS Number_Of_Customers,
ROUND(avg(quantity*price)*2) AS Average_Spent
FROM FebSales Feb
LEFT JOIN customers cust
ON FEB.orderid=cust.order_id
WHERE Feb.Quantity>2
AND length(orderid) = 6
AND orderid <> 'Order ID';

--List all the products sold in Los Angeles in February, and include how many of each were sold:
SELECT Product, SUM(quantity)
FROM FebSales
WHERE location like '%Los Angeles%'
GROUP BY Product

--How can these results answer business problems or help a business out?
--This information can help identify high-value customers who make bulk purchases, allowing the business to tailor marketing strategies or loyalty programs to retain these 
customers. Knowing the popular products sold at a specific location during a particular period can help optimize inventory management and marketing efforts for those products.
Understanding the revenue generated by each product in January can help in identifying the top-selling products and focusing on marketing or production strategies accordingly. 
Knowing the lowest-priced product can help in pricing strategies, understanding customer preferences, and identifying potential opportunities for bundling or promotions.
Having access to customer account numbers for February orders can assist in customer relationship management, targeted communication, and analyzing customer behavior during that
period. Knowing the demand for specific products like iPhones can help in forecasting, inventory management, and understanding market trends. Understanding the volume of orders 
in January can help in assessing business performance, workload planning, and resource allocation for that period.
